the raah border crossing has now been
closed on the Palestinian side by the
Israelis and we'll cross over to raah
and speak to Sam Rose who un's director
of planning thank you for your time Mr
Rose uh tell us what impact this border
crossing has had the closure of the
crossing
I yeah the closure of the crossing since
Sunday is having catastrophic impacts on
on on everyone in Gaza since October
this has been the main entry point for
goods coming into Gaza there has only
been a trickle of goods coming in and
since Sunday The Crossing has been
closed completely and this has
devastating impacts for the people of
Gaza who are already on the verge of
famine so no Aid coming in means no Aid
distributed after a couple of days and
and and equally importantly Rafa K shom
the only entry point for fuel in Gaza so
without the fuel there's no ability for
trucks to move around there's no ability
for desalination plants to operate and
provide Safe Water there's no
electricity it cuts off everything Rafa
K Shalom they're the lifeblood for the
small amounts of guts that have been
coming into Gaza since October so
absolutely devastating so um um as unwa
what would you say your biggest concern
is right now with with all of this
happening I mean it's very difficult to
nail it down to one concern we have a
major concern as I said about fuel
because without fuel there is no water
but we also have a major major concern
and a deeply concerned about the
humanitarian impacts of the operation
which appears to be starting in eastern
RAF and what that will mean for people
who've already endured so much 100,000
people in the evacuation area itself but
many more in the uh in the surrounding
areas who are choosing to move so real
real humanitarian consequences and real
concerns about the continuity of our
operations we have fuel for about half a
day's worth of of operations that's the
entire humanitarian Community inside
Gaza so if the crossing is closed for
any extended duration it will be it it
will be devastating as I said what does
uh the the closure uh mean for your
teams in RAF will your teams be
evacuating and how do you see unwa being
able to continue its work
no no we are staying where we are inside
Rafa we have a small number of
installations inside the the evacuation
area but our main operations in Rafa are
in tesan close to the beach we are
staying exactly where we are we have
teams across the Gaza Strip several
thousand staff working on any given day
we will stay where we are the issue is
our ability to continue delivering in
over any sustained duration of time if
those Crossing points remain
closed what are you calling for what's
the message you want to send out to the
International
Community the message is that this has
to come to an end that the ceasefire has
to be agreed there has to be an
unconditional Handover of of hostages
it's seven months today we are marking
of this horrific conflict it needs to
come to an end now more immediately all
steps need to be taken to secure passage
of goods and passage of fuel through the
Rafa K Shalom
Crossings okay Sam Jones thank you so
much for your time and thanks for
speaking to us from
Rafa thank
you make sure to subscribe to our
channel to get the latest news from Al
jazer